---
title: 🍕Private delivery
date: 2022-07-03 10:59:19
permalink: /pages/fbb938/
---

LiteFlow supports private delivery feature.


## What is private delivery

In the previous introduction, it has been explained that in a request, all components of LiteFLow share the same context.

In a request, all data in the context is exposed to all nodes in the request chain. Every component can access data.

But there is such a situation, such as my rule is defined like this:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<flow>
    <chain name="chain1">
        THEN(
            a,
            WHEN(b, b, b, b, b),
            c
        );
    </chain>
</flow>
```

After executing component a, the same 5 components b are concurrently executed. The logic on the b component is the same, but it needs to receive 5 different parameters.

We know that in the previous description, the a component can put data in the context, and other components can get what the a component puts in the context, but in this scenario, the ordinary storage data cannot allow the b component to get 5 Different parameters for concurrent processing.


:::tip concept
LiteFlow defines the concept of private delivery, which means that a component can explicitly declare to deliver one or more parameters for a specific component, and the delivered parameters can only be obtained by this specific component, and the delivered parameters can only be taken once.
:::


With this feature, the above scenarios can be solved.



## Solution

We first define component a:

```java
@LiteflowComponent("a")
public class ACmp extends NodeComponent {
	@Override
	public void process() {
		System.out.println("ACmp executed!");
		DefaultContext context = this.getContextBean();
		context.setData("testSet", new HashSet<>());

		for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
			this.sendPrivateDeliveryData("b",i+1);
		}
	}
}
```

You can see that we made a private delivery for the b component, called the `this.sendPrivateDeliveryData` method, and specified the b component



Then we look at the b component:

```java
@LiteflowComponent("b")
public class BCmp extends NodeComponent {
	@Override
	public void process() {
		System.out.println("BCmp executed!");
		Integer value = this.getPrivateDeliveryData();
		//do your biz
	}
}
```

The b component calls the `this.getPrivateDeliveryData()` method to get the parameters delivered by the A component. Because the parameters can only be obtained once (implemented with a queue), it is ensured that the parameters obtained by each b component are different.