---
title: 🍣Component retry
date: 2022-07-03 11:03:09
permalink: /pages/7e9da1/
---

LiteFLow supports retry of components



## Global retry

If you need to retry globally, you need to do the following configuration:

```properties
liteflow.retry-count=3
```

This means that if the component throws any exception, it will retry 3 times, and if the exception still occurs after 3 times, the whole chain ends.

The chain will continue in the following cases:

If the component overrides `isContinueOnError`, set to true, the process will continue.

For asynchronous processes, if `ignoreError` is configured on `WHEN` to be true (default is false), the next different parallel group will continue. For the definition and use of `ignoreError`, you can check the [Parallel mode](/pages/b3446a/) chapter.



## Single component retry

LiteFlow also provides a retry feature that specifies Exception based on a single component. LiteFlow has provided the `@LiteflowRetry` annotation since 2.6.0

You can annotate specific components:

```java
@LiteflowComponent("c")
@LiteflowRetry(5)
public class CCmp extends NodeComponent {
	@Override
	public void process() {
		//do your biz
	}
}
```

This means that if this component throws any exception, it will retry up to 5 times. If the 5th retry is unsuccessful, it will really throw your business exception



One or more exceptions can also be specified on this annotation:

```java
@LiteflowComponent("e")
@LiteflowRetry(retry = 5, forExceptions = {NullPointerException.class,IllegalArgumentException.class})
public class ECmp extends NodeComponent {
	@Override
	public void process() {
        //do your biz
	}
}
```

This means that if the exception thrown by this component is `NullPointerException` or `IllegalArgumentException` (or subclasses of these two Exception classes), it will make up to 5 attempts, and the last attempt is unsuccessful, it will be true Throw an exception.



## Mixed definition

If the above two modes are both defined, the retry configuration of a single component takes precedence. If not, take the global configuration.