---
title: 🍿Custom component executor
date: 2022-07-03 11:24:54
permalink: /pages/46bbed/
---

LiteFlow allows users to define custom component executors, which can be used to add custom code and rewrite retry policies when executing components. Of course other ways to accomplish the same purpose are possible, such as the component aspect feature.

If you are not very clear about what this feature does, it is recommended to use the default way. (Which really means no need to read this section)



## Global component executor

For custom component executors, you can override them globally. The default component executor is:`com.yomahub.liteflow.entity.executor.DefaultNodeExecutor`

You can replace the global default component executor by:

```properties
liteflow.node-executor-class=com.yomahub.liteflow.test.nodeExecutor.CustomerDefaultNodeExecutor
```



Custom component executors need to inherit`com.yomahub.liteflow.entity.executor.NodeExecutor`。

```java
public class CustomerDefaultNodeExecutor extends NodeExecutor {
    @Override
    public void execute(NodeComponent instance) throws Exception {
        LOG.info("use customerDefaultNodeExecutor to execute");
        super.execute(instance);
      
      	//You can add your own code here, the above code can be removed.
      	//But make sure to at least call instance.execute(), otherwise the component will not be executed correctly.
    }
}
```



## Configure executor for one components

single components also support configuring custom executor.

You need to implement the `getNodeExecutorClass` method when defining the component:

```java
@LiteflowComponent("d")
public class DCmp extends NodeComponent {

    @Override
    public void process() {
        System.out.println("DCmp executed!");
    }

    @Override
    public Class<? extends NodeExecutor> getNodeExecutorClass() {
        return CustomerNodeExecutorAndCustomRetry.class;
    }
}
```



## Priority

If both global and single component are configured with custom executors, the executor configured on the single component will take precedence.



## The impact of custom executors on retry functions

Because the retry logic is implemented in the default executor. So if you configure a custom executor, the retry function needs to be implemented by yourself. And the global retry parameter configuration and the `@LiteflowRetry` function tag will be invalid.

Of course, if you implement your own custom executor, you can still get the retry parameters and write your own special retry logic. All this needs to be done by yourself. Pay attention to this.