---
title: 📙Custom source
date: 2022-06-07 01:03:17
permalink: /pages/25f2c0/
---

## 说明

If you don't want to use the local configuration, and don't plan to use zk as the configuration source. LiteFlow supports extension points for custom configuration sources.

Rule files in XML form, please inherit `ClassXmlFlowELParser`

For rule files in JSON format, please inherit `ClassJsonFlowELParser`

For rule files in YML format, please inherit `ClassYmlFlowELParser`

The following is an example of a custom source configuration class in XML form:

```java
public class TestCustomParser extends ClassXmlFlowELParser {

	@Override
	public String parseCustom() {
		System.out.println("进入自定义parser");
		String xmlContent = null;
		//Here you need to extend it yourself to get the configuration from a custom place
		return xmlContent;
	}
}
```

:::tip tip one

The custom configuration source class is also automatically injected into the spring context, so you can freely inject beans in the spring context in this class, you can use annotation such as `@Autowired` and `@Resources`

:::

:::tip tip two
The custom configuration source implementation class requires you to return all the configuration file text content. This also means that if you store in a database, you store all the rules file text.

If you want to store the rule details in the database instead of the entire rule text, please refer to the [Dynamic rules](/pages/9aa85a/) chapter.
:::

## Configuration path

The following uses the configuration of Springboot as an example. For the configuration of Spring and non-Spring environments, you can read the [Configuration Items](/pages/b70ec8/) chapter in detail.

You just need to change rule-source to the class of your custom rule configuration source

```properties
liteflow.rule-source=el_xml:com.yomahub.liteflow.test.TestCustomParser
```

:::tip About the el_xml tag header

LiteFlow not only supports xml configuration, but also json and yml configuration. The beginning of `el_xml:` indicates that the content read here is the configuration in xml and parsed in EL. Please read the [Rule File Format](/pages/7e3166/) chapter for details about the supported format of the rule file.

:::
