---
title: 🍒Pre & Finally components
date: 2022-07-02 22:51:41
permalink: /pages/9f93be/
---

LiteFlow supports pre-component and finally-component features.

Used to execute certain components before or after the chain.

The front and finally components are both serial nodes and do not support asynchronous.

## Pre Component

To execute certain nodes before a chain starts, use the `PRE` keyword (must be capitalized) in EL rules:

```xml
<chain name="chain1">
    THEN(
        PRE(p1, p2), 
        a, b, c, 
        WHEN(d, e)
    );
</chain>
```

## Finally component

Execute some nodes after a chain ends. It should be noted that the finally component is not affected by Exception. Even if the node fails, the finally component will still be executed. Use the `FINALLY` keyword (must be capitalized) in EL rules:

```xml
<chain name="chain1">
    THEN(
        a, b, c, 
        FINALLY(f1, f2)
    );
</chain>
```

## About sequence

Does the pre component have to be written in front? Does the finally component have to be written at the end?

No, `PRE` and `FINALLY` can be written anywhere in the first layer.

for example:

```xml
<chain name="chain1">
    THEN(
        PRE(a), c, d, FINALLY(f1, f2)
    );
</chain>
```
The following expression is equivalent to the above, even if it is not placed in the corresponding position, it still has the same effect.

```xml
<chain name="chain1">
    THEN(
        FINALLY(f1, f2), c, PRE(a), d
    );
</chain>
```

What is the first layer, please see the following example:

```xml
<chain name="chain1">
    THEN(
        a, THEN(PRE(b,c), d)
    );
</chain>
```

In the above example, `PRE` will not be executed. Because it's on the second layer. Valid only for `PRE` and `FINALLY` at the first layer.


## Scope

It is worth mentioning that the scope of `PRE` and `FINALLY` is the current Chain.

This also means that if you use `PRE` and `FINALLY` in a sub chain, it will only work for the sub chain.

Take a look at the following example:

```xml
<chain name="chain1">
    THEN(PRE(p1, p2), chain2, FINALLY(f1));
</chain>

<chain name="chain2">
    THEN(PRE(p3), a, b, FINALLY(f2));
</chain>
```

If executed correctly, the resulting steps should look like this:

p1=>p2=>p3=>a=>b=>f2=>f1