---
title: 🥑Implicit chain
date: 2022-07-03 00:42:38
permalink: /pages/80e873/
---

LiteFlow supports calling another chain through code in one node, and this chain relationship will not be displayed in the rule file. So here it is called implicit call.

The main chain and the implicit chain share the same context data. So the implicit chain can also get all the data in this request.

Implicit chain can complete more complex sub-processes, such as loop calls, complex conditional judgments, and so on. Implicit chain require you to invoke the `this.invoke` statement in the component.

```java
@Component("h")
public class HComponent extends NodeComponent {

	@Override
	public void process() {
		System.out.println("Hcomponent executed!");
        for(int i=0;i<10;i++){
            this.invoke("strategy1","initial parameters");
        }
	}
}
```

This code shows a method of calling another process chain cyclically within a business node.

:::tip
It should be noted that if you open muti thread in the component to call the implicit component, it is recommended to use the `invokeInAsync` method.
:::


Implicit chain also supports returning the `LiteFlowResponse` object, you need to call the `invoke2Resp` method. For the description of the returned object being `LiteFlowResponse`, please refer to [LiteflowResponse object](/pages/9f653d/).

:::warning notice
If you are using `invoke` to call an implicit process, get the incoming implicit process request parameters in the component, go through `this.getSubChainReqData()` to get them.

If you are using `invokeInAsync` to invoke the hard process and get the incoming implicit process request parameters in the component, go through `this.getSubChainReqDataInAsync()` to get it.

You can't get it with `this.getRequestData()`!
:::