---
title: 🍓Features
date: 2022-06-01 21:13:18
permalink: /pages/724bc3/
---

* **<font color=#E01E5A>Unified component definition:</font>** All logic is components, providing a unified way of component implementation for all logic, small size, big power.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Lightweight rules:</font>** Based on the rules file to orchestrate the process, it only takes 5 minutes to learn the rules to get started.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Multiple formats:</font>** The rules support xml, json and yml.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Arbitrary arrangement:</font>** With LiteFlow rules you can easily do synchronous asynchronous mixing, and you can know how the logic works from the rules file.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Rules can be loaded from anywhere:</font>** The framework provides local file configuration source and zk configuration source implementation, also provides an extension interface, you can store the rules anywhere.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Hot Refresh:</font>** Rules change without restarting your application, changing the rules of your application instantly. Refreshing under high concurrency will not cause any misalignment.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Wide support:</font>** LiteFlow works regardless of whether your project is built on Springboot, Spring or any other java framework.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>JDK Support:</font>** Support from JDK8 to JDK17. No need to worry about the JDK version.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Scripting language support:</font>** Support for defining scripting language nodes, supporting both QLExpress and Groovy scripts. More scripting languages will be supported in the future.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Rule nesting support:</font>** You can use simple expressions to accomplish complex logical arrangements with multiple nesting.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Component Retry Support:</font>** Components can support retries, and each component can be customized with retries configuration and specified exceptions.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Context isolation mechanism:</font>** Reliable context isolation mechanism, you don't need to worry about data misalignment in the case of high concurrency.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Declarative Component Support:</font>** You can make any class into a component.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Detailed step information:</font>** With the step information you can clearly know how the process is executed, how much time each component takes, what exceptions there are.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Stable and reliable:</font>** Over 2 years of iteration, stable operation on the core systems of major companies.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Excellent performance:</font>** LiteFlow consumes almost no additional performance, and performance depends on the efficiency of your component execution.
* **<font color=#E01E5A>Simple Monitoring:</font>** LiteFlow has a command line monitor to know the running time ranking of each component.