---
title: 📎Common components
date: 2022-06-29 17:53:36
permalink: /pages/8486fb/
---

Common component nodes need to inherit the `NodeComponent` class, which can be used in the `THEN` and `WHEN` keywords.

Need to implement the `process` method:

```java
@LiteflowComponent("a")
public class ACmp extends NodeComponent {

	@Override
	public void process() {
		System.out.println("ACmp executed!");
	}
}
```

:::tip tip
`@LiteflowComponent` inherits from `@Component`, if you are in the spring system environment, you can inject any spring beans into the component for use.

The parameter a of `@LiteflowComponent` is the component ID you need to use when writing EL rules.
:::


## Methods that can be overridden



For components, the following methods in the superclass can be overridden.



### isAccess

It is recommended to implement the `isAccess` method, indicating whether to enter the node, which can be used for pre-judgment of business parameters.



### isContinueOnError

Indicates whether the error continues to execute the next component, the default value is false.



### isEnd

If it returns true after overwriting, it means that the entire process will be terminated immediately after the component is executed. For this method, since it is a process that the user voluntarily ends, it is a normal end, so the final isSuccess is true.

::: tip tip

It should be noted that if `this.setIsEnd(true)` is called when `isContinueOnError` is true, it will still terminate. The `isSuccess` in the response is still true.

:::



### beforeProcess and afterProcess

The pre- and post-processors of the process, where the pre-processor is executed after `isAccess`.

Used to perform some pre- and post-processing, but generally this is not needed. If it is to do the component front and rear in a unified way, it is recommended to use the aspect to complete it. For the aspect, please refer to [Component aspect](/pages/2373f5/).

### onSuccess and onError

The success or failure event callback of the process, please refer to [Component Event Callback](/pages/3ee755/) for details.



## Methods that the This keyword can call



### Get context

In the component node, you can get the context defined by yourself through the method `this.getContextBean(clazz)` at any time, so that you can get any data.



### getNodeId

Get the component ID.


### getName

Get component alias.



### getChainName

Get the currently executing Chain name.



### getRequestData

Get the initial parameters of the Chain.



### setIsEnd

Indicates whether to end the entire process immediately, the usage is `this.setIsEnd(true)`. For this method, since it is a process that the user voluntarily ends, it is a normal end, so the final isSuccess is true.

::: tip notice

It should be noted that if `this.setIsEnd(true)` is called when `isContinueOnError` is true, it will still terminate. The `isSuccess` in the response is still true.

:::



### getTag

Get the label information of this component. For the definition and use of labels, please refer to [Component Labels](/pages/0f788f/).

### invoke and invoke2Response

Call the implicit process. For the description and usage of the implicit process, please refer to [Implicit Chain](/pages/80e873/).



## @LiteflowComponent

Since v2.6.0, the `@LiteflowComponent` tag has been added, which is inherited from Spring's `@Component` tag, so in terms of function, it is no different from the `@Component` tag, but `@LiteflowComponent` A new `name` attribute has been added to alias the component, which will be reflected when printing the call chain. For details, please refer to the [Printing Details](/pages/4d614c/) chapter. Starting with the new version, it is recommended that you use `@LiteflowComponent`, of course, `@Component` can also continue to be used.