---
title: 📘SQL database source
date: 2022-10-11 23:16:58
permalink: /pages/8fd490/
---

Starting from v2.9.0, LiteFlow supports the configuration source of standard structured databases, as long as your database is compatible with standard SQL syntax, it can be supported.

## Dependency

If using a database as the source for rule configuration, you need to add the following additional plugin dependencies:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.yomahub</groupId>
    <artifactId>liteflow-rule-sql</artifactId>
    <version>2.9.1</version>
</dependency>
```

## Configuration

You don't need to configure the `liteflow.ruleSource` path anymore.

Just configure the extra parameters of the plugin:

<code-group>
  <code-block title="Properties Style" active>

```properties
liteflow.rule-source-ext-data={\
  "url":"jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1:3306/poseidon",\
  "driverClassName":"com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver",\
  "username":"root",\
  "password":"123456",\
  "tableName":"chain",\
  "elDataField":"el_data"\
}
```
  </code-block>
  <code-block title="Yaml Style">

```yaml
liteflow:
  rule-source-ext-data-map:
    url: jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1:3306/poseidon
    driverClassName: com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver
    username: root
    password: 123456
    tableName: chain
    elDataField: el_data
```
  </code-block>
</code-group>

The above example is an example of using the H2 database. If you need to replace it with a mysql, oracle or other standard SQL database, you can replace the corresponding parameters.

When LiteFlow stores rules, it is a chain of one line of data.

LiteFlow does not constrain your table name and table structure. You can configure the table name in the tableName parameter, and the chain name and EL expression in the chainNameField and elDataField parameters respectively.

## Auto Refresh

Since structured databases do not support push changes, when your rules change in the database, LiteFlow is unaware of the changes. Rules are not refreshed automatically.

You need to call the API provided by LiteFlow to complete the rule refresh. In practical applications, you can make this refresh a button or an http link on the page to operate.

For details on how to call the API to refresh rules, see [Smooth hot refresh](/pages/204d71/).

## Example

In order to make it easy for everyone to get started with the configuration of the DB rule, here is a small demo that you can pull to run locally, you need to replace the DB configuration information.

Before running the project, read the `readme.txt` file in the project.

> https://github.com/bryan31/liteflow-ext-rule-demo